This is a demonstration of the cartesian 1-D plane-parallel mode of RADMC-3D.
See, however, first the run_simple_1/README file for some general notes about
setups like this and the RADMC-3D code compilation.

RADMC-3D is, by nature, a 3-D code. But as of version 0.31 it also features
a cartesian 1-D plane-parallel mode. In this mode some things work a bit
different than "normal":

 - Images are by default 1x1 pixels, because in a plane-parallel case it
   is useless to have multiple pixels. 

 - Spectra cannot be made, because "spectrum" is (in RADMC-3D 'language')
   the flux as a function of frequency as seen at a very large distance of
   the object, so that the object is in the "far field". Since
   the concept of "far-field" is no longer meaningful in a plane-parallel
   case, it is better to make frequency-dependent 1x1 pixel images. This
   gives you the frequence-dependent intensity, which is all you should
   need.

This test setup is a 1-D constant density slab geometry with at the lower
boundary a thermal boundary (see run_simple_1_thermbc for notes about, and
an example of thermal boundaries).

To run this model, first make sure that the RADMC-3D code compiled and
installed. Then type on the linux command line:

 python problem_setup.py

Type:

 radmc3d mctherm

This should do the Monte Carlo computation of the dust temperatures.
You can look at the list of dust temperatures in the file called
dust_temperature.dat. 

If you wish to find out what the outcoming intensity at, say, lambda
= 10 micron is for face on view (i.e. the observer is at z=+infinity
and x=y=0):

 radmc3d image lambda 10

This produces a file image.out which contains a lot of numbers, but 
the very last number is the one you are interested in: the intensity
in units of erg/s/cm^2/Hz/ster. You can also obtain this intensity
at another inclination:

 radmc3d image lambda 10 incl 70

which is the intensity seen at a grazing incidence angle (just 20 
degrees with the plane). You can also get the intensity as a function
of wavelength (i.e.\ some form of "spectrum"), for instance:

 radmc3d image lambdarange 5 20 nlam 10

which produces 10 intensity values, at 10 wavelength points between 5 and 20
microns. Here you can see the meaning of some of the other numbers in
image.out: the third line contains an integer with the number of wavelength
points (10 in this case). Starting from the fifth line you have the list
of wavelengths in microns. After that you have the list of intensities.

You can also choose to get the intensities at all the wavelength 
points in the wavelength_micron.inp file:

 radmc3d image allwl

(where "allwl" stands for "all wavelengths"). In this example, since
the wavelength_micron.inp file contains 150 wavelength points, the
image.out will now also contain a list of 150 wavelength and a list
of the corresponding intensities.

You can also experiment with parallel beams of radiation impinging onto the
top of the photosphere. By default the setup is such that these are switched
off. But by uncommenting one of the "Illuminating parallel flux beams"
settings you can add these beams. In the problem_setup.pro it is described
what you should expect.

You can also add a thermal boundary also on the top by uncommenting the
nearly last line of the problem_setup.pro (but please not while having flux
beams, because that would have no meaning).

20.03.2012, 20.05.12

NOTE: As of version 0.31 of RADMC-3D this model comes with a dust opacity
      table that spans a larger wavelength range, allowing it to be used
      down to lower temperatures. The new opacity table is made with the Mie
      code from the opac/dust_continuum/jena/ directory, using the
      olmg50.lnk optical constants file from the Jena database. This is
      MgFeSiO4 with a specific weight of 3.71 gram/cm^3. The grain size is
      0.1 micron radius.
