Here the BHMIE code of Bohren & Huffman is used to compute the full
scattering matrix table. Instead of writing the dustkappa_xxx.inp file
it will write the dustkapscatmat_xxx.inp file, which contains in addition
to kappa_abs and kappa_scat also the scattering matrix elements 
Z_11, Z_12, Z_22, Z_33, Z_34 and Z_44 from Mie theory. 

The Bohren & Huffman code, as modified by Draine, is used:

  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Codes_for_electromagnetic_scattering_by_spheres
  http://scatterlib.wikidot.com/mie
  http://www.astro.princeton.edu/~draine/scattering.html

That code is not provided here (please get it yourself from the web). Only
the "shell around it" is provided here. What you must do is:

 1) Get the bhmie.f code (see above link) and put it in this directory.
 2) Type "make", which should compile bhmie.f and make_scatmat.f90
    and produce a code called "makeopac". It also compiles the code
    make_scatmat_distr.f90 and produces "makeopac_distr". The latter
    does the same as the former, but for a powerlaw distribution of
    grain sizes. A third version is make_scatmat_smoothed.f90, which
    also uses a distribution of grain sizes, but this time a Gaussian
    distribution centered around a given grain size (the executable is
    "makeopac_smoothed"). The smoothing can be important in order to
    wash out all too extreme phase function fluctuations (see below).
 3) Get an .lnk file from the Jena database, e.g.
     http://www.astro.uni-jena.de/Laboratory/OCDB/data/silicate/pyrmg70.lnk
 4) Edit param.inp to put the name "pyrmg70" on the first line (if you use
    indeed pyrmg70.lnk). The second line should be the grain size in cm.
    The third line the material density in gram/cm^3 (note: you can find
    this either on the jena website or you'll have to look for this on other
    databases). If this is set to 0, then the code will look in the
    optical constants file for a line starting with '# @density = ' and
    will take the number after that statement as the material density.
    The fourth line is the number of angle sampling points for
    the phase function (uniformly distributed in angle in degrees between 0
    and 180); a reasonable value for this could be 181, meaning one sampling
    per degree. Optionally you can give the maximum allowed error
    in the integration of the scattering matrix over angle: The code will
    automatically integrate the Z_11 matrix element over 4*pi and checks if
    this is equal to the kappa_scat that BHMIE gives independently; if it
    exceeds the error tolerance given here, it will stop. The default error
    tolerance is 0.01. However, for very large grains and/or very small
    wavelengths the very strong forward-peaked scattering will cause
    pretty large errors (we "only" have, by default, 181 angle points).
    This is not too problematic, if you use the "chopping" feature of
    the code: this removes the excessive forward scattering (because
    very forward-peaked scattering is, for radiative transfer calculations,
    as good as no scattering). You can use the chopping mode by adding
    two more lines in params.inp: a line with '0' (sorry, a backward
    compatibility thing), and a line with the chopping angle in degrees,
    i.e. 5. You can then safely set the error tolerance to a large value.
 5) Now type ./makeopac and this produces a file dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70.inp.
    See RADMC-3D manual for the format of this file, although it is realtively
    straightforward. It will also create the smaller opacity file called
    dustkappa_pyrmg70.inp, which does not contain the full scattering
    matrix. 

or if you want to use makeopac_distr:

 4) Edit param_distr.inp. It has almost the same structure as param.inp
    (see above), but there are a few lines added to it to allow you to
    specify the distribution of particles. The second line should be the nr
    of grain sizes you wish to use for the computation of the distribution.
    The more the better, but in the end just a single averaged opacity comes
    out anyway (so, a large number here does not affect the speed of
    RADMC-3D in any way). Then follows the minimal and maximal grain sizes
    in cm (each on a separate line). Then (the fifth line) gives the
    powerlaw index for the distribution function (-3.5 is the usuall MRN
    distribution). From here on the file is again the same as param.inp.
 5) Now type ./makeopac_distr and this produces dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70.inp.
    This is a file that can be used as if it is the opacity of a single
    grain, but it is now an average over the powerlaw grain size distribution.

or if you want to use makeopac_smoothed:

 4) Edit param_smoothed.inp. It has almost the same structure as param_distr.inp
    (see above), but instead of the minimum grain size, maximum grain size
    and the powerlaw index, you give the mean grain size, the width of the
    Gauss in log(a) and a constant called wfact which is typically set to 3.0.
    From here on the file is again the same as param.inp.
 5) Now type ./makeopac_smoothed and this produces dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70.inp.
    This is a file that can be used as if it is the opacity of a single
    grain, but it is now an average over the Gaussian grain size distribution.

Have a look at the plot_compare_distr.py which makes plots of all three
results and compare them to each other.

IMPORTANT NOTE: With RADMC-3D version 2.0 these Fortran Mie codes no longer
                rescale the Z matrix elements to match the kappa_scat. This
                was done in the earlier versions, to ensure that RADMC-3D
                does not complain that the Z and kappa_scat values are not
                mutually consistent. Now, however, we recommend using the
                chopping method. This limits excessive forward scattering,
                and rescales kappa_scat to the Z (instead of vv). This is
                more consistent.

The new versions of the Fortran90 codes also have the possibility to
import an pre-defined wavelength grid that is not necessarily the same
as the one of the optical constants database. The current setup actually
uses this: it contains the file

     wavelength_micron.inp

which contains the wavelength points at which the opacities should be
computed. Internally it interpolates/extrapolates the optical constants
from the optical constants file onto the wavelength grid given. The
filename wavelength_micron.inp should then be specified in the params*.inp
files (as they are in the default setup).


For comparing to the Python Mie code
------------------------------------
In the RADMC-3D package there is also a Python version of the entire
Mie code machinery. See ../bohrenhuffman_python/ . To facilitate
a direct comparison between the results from the Fortran90 codes and
the Python code, a copy of the python codes (bhmie.py, makedustopac.py,
and the corresponding calling script python_version.py) are also
provided in this directory. And have a look at the plot_compare_python.py
to make the comparison.


A note about the need for the grain size distribution:
------------------------------------------------------
If you look at the scattering phase function for very small wavelengths compared
to the grain size, then you will see that Mie theory produces very strong
oscillations of Z_11 as a function of scattering angle. This is only
realistic if you are convinced that the grain size distribution is extremely
narrow (i.e. nearly perfectly single-size, sometimes called "monodisperse").
In most circumstances you will have a grain size distribution with some
non-negligible width even if still rather narrow. Since the location of the
oscillation peaks depend critically on the grain size, the average
scattering from this distribution would smear out these peaks to a large
extent. In other words: under realistic conditions these extreme peaks will
be smoothed out. In RADMC-3D you can treat grain size distributions, which
would in principle do this averaging automatically for you. But to get a 
good smooth averaging you would have to use a rather fine sampling of the
grain size distribution, which makes RADMC-3D slow and the output files
large. A better way, which we recommend here, is to make the grain size 
distribution in RADMC-3D as coarse as you can afford (i.e.\ "too
coarse" for RADMC-3D would for instance mean if the different grain 
sizes would be spatially separated substantially due to e.g. settling
in a disk, and/or if the expected grain size temperatures are going to be
too large), but compute for each grain size bin of RADMC-3D an entire
finely-sampled grain size distribution in the makeopac_distr code. Then
each RADMC-3D size bin actually represents the average opacity over the
entire grain size range the bin represents. Example: We may want to
sample the grain size in RADMC-3D with 10 bins, logarithmically spaced
between 1 micron and 1000 micron, meaning two neighboring bins are
roughly a factor exp(ln(1000.)/10)=1.99526=~2.0 apart in size. This coarse
spacing is sufficiently fine to avoid too strong temperature differences
and fine enough to allow large grains to settle more closely toward the
midplane of a protoplanetary disk. But for the phase function of scattering
this sampling is way too course, in particular for the larger grain bins.
So what we do is to compute the opacity files dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70_1.inp, 
dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70_2.inp, .... , dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70_10.inp, i.e.
one file for each grain size (and thus we will need 10 grain size 
dust density distributions in the model setup), and for each of these
10 grain sizes we use makeopac_distr using, say, 20 size sampling points.
For RADMC-3D bin 1 the param_distr.inp would then look like e.g.:

pyrmg70
20
0.7071d-4
1.4121d-4
-3.5
3.d0
181
0.1

The 0.7071d-4 equals 1/sqrt(2.0) and 1.4121 equals sqrt(2.0). 
After calling makeopac_distr we type

   mv dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70.inp dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70_1.inp 

For bin 2 we would have for param_distr.inp

pyrmg70
20
1.4121d-4
2.8284d-4
-3.5
3.d0
181
0.1

etc. Of course it is useful to do this in a script rather than by hand.

If you assume that all dust temperatures are always the same (they are
thermally coupled) or if you are not interested in dust temperatures and
only in the scattering, and if the distribution of dust is the same for
all grain sizes, you do not need separate RADMC-3D bins. You could then
make the entire distribution in one go. For instance (in param_distr.inp):

pyrmg70
20
1d-4
1d0
-3.5
3.d0
181
0.1

which makes an MRN grain size distribution from 1 micron all the way
to 1 cm grain size and put everything into a single file
dustkapscatmat_pyrmg70.inp. This is of course the easiest in terms of
RADMC-3D modeling, because then you need to only make a model for
"the" dust, and not worry about the size distribution.

01.01.2013 / 14.09.2020
