Here we demonstrate the effect of anisotropic scattering on images at short
wavelengths. Since the models so far have used 0.1 micron size grains, and for
comparison reasons we want to stick to that, we choose here to make the images
at a very short wavelength (0.2 microns) in order to demonstrate what happens
when you have very strongly forward-peaked scattering. For lambda = 1 micron,
the given scattering opacity would be not very strongly anisotropic.

NOTE: Because the dustkapscatmat_silicate.inp file is rather big, we copy
      it from ../run_simple_2_scatmat/ to here, so that the RADMC-3D
      package does not become too bulky. This is done automatically
      in problem_setup.py

To use the full scattering phase function, including the polarization, we use
the dustkapscatmat_silicate.inp opacity file, which contains the angular
differential cross sections at all scattering angles. The file is therefore much
larger than dustkappa_silicate.inp used in the other examples.

Note: The full scattering mode does not work with mirror symmetry in the
midplane. So now the theta-grid must span all the way from "above the disk"
to "below the disk". The number of theta-gridpoints is therefore now double
as high as before.

Now, as usual set up the model and compute the dust temperature:

   python problem_setup.py
   radmc3d mctherm

Now in Python make the image figures:

   %run plot_images_0.2_micron.py

This will create two images: one with isotropic scattering assumption and one
with full scattering treatment (anisotropic). The forwardly-peaked scattering is
clearly seen.

For comparison, you can also do:

   %run plot_images_2_micron.py

This does the same, but now at 2 micron, where the scattering is almost
isotropic. Note, however, that even at large wavelengths (or equivalently
small grains), the scattering is never truly isotropic: it has the famous
0.5*(1+cos(theta)^2) shape of Rayleigh scattering. That is why, in the
comparison at 2 microns along the major axis the isotropic scattering case
is a bit brighter, while along the minor axis the isotropic scattering case
is a bit dimmer than the real scattering case. This can be seen in the
cross section figure.

You may wonder why the full scattering Monte Carlo is so very much slower than
the isotropic treatment. The reason is that for isotropic scattering, the
scattering source function S_nu^scat is angle-independent, while for the full
scattering it is angle-dependent, and thus we need to store (for each cell
in (r,theta)) not just one value S_nu^scat, but an entire array of values
S_nu^scat(phi), where phi is the third dimension (azimuth). Reason: Given
that we (the observer) are looking at the disk from a particular angle
(phi=0), the axisymmetry for the scattering source function is broken. For
non-isotropic scattering we actually need full 3-D! In earlier versions of
RADMC-3D full scattering was therefore simply forbidden in 2-D axisymmetric
models. You needed to make a full 3-D model in (r,theta,phi). However, for
the thermal Monte Carlo (where there is no observer breaking the symmetry)
this required then a lot more computational effort. Moreover, it is simply
inconvenient to handle 3-D models if most of the model is axisymmetric. So
now RADMC-3D allows 2-D models to use non-axisymmetric scattering. The trick
is simply that for scattering it (internally) creates a 3-D array for the
scattering source function (and only for that; all other arrays stay 2-D).

Note: If you use nphot=10000 you (obviously) see stronger noise at the far end
of the full scattering image. These are the multiple-scattered photon packages
leaving their mark.

Note that the image is _not_ left-right-symmetric. Given that the model is
axisymmetric, this may look wrong. The observer may break axial symmetry, but
not mirror symmetry (except for the polarization). However, the photon packages
move in full 3-D. The photon noise is therefore not strictly axisymmetric. If a
photon package initially moves away from us, then gets scattered to the left,
then its contribution to the source function will be different on the left than
on the right side of the disk.

2020-09-01, 2020-09-13
